# uol_finalproject_2021
This is a repository that contains the final year project at the University of London in 2021. 

# Abstract
Bug-bounty programs (BBPs) are a method utilising crowdsourcing by ethical hackers to improve organisations’ information security. This study aims at showing perspectives from BBPs’ end users through online questionnaire and interviews on ethical hackers, companies, government department and third-party platforms. Before introducing BBPs, some ethical hackers would report bugs to company, but some were not willing to report because of legal jeopardies and unresponsive attitudes from companies. Hence, some may conceal the information or selling it to black market. For organisations, they consider unauthorised testing on websites and systems from unknown testers as illegal or extort actions. Not to mention most companies did not have a proper channel to deliver and response to these reports.

BBPs are a solution to the problems. BBPs provide a cost-effective method for organisations. In the questionnaire, ethical hackers showed positive attitude to keep joining BBPs but have concerns with bugs undervalued. In the interviews, companies shared the insights on running BBPs is a way to build reputation. Government department talked about not using BBPs because of hackers’ unknown identities and law restrictions. They also considered clarity in policies and costs reduction is the benefits of joining BBPs through a third-party platform. To conclude, BBPs is an innovative method for companies to improve information security compare to the traditional way of relying on limited source of IT security expertise such as an IT security company or invited penetration testers. BBPs is a means of utilising crowdsourcing by incentivising skilful ethical hackers with bounties and accumulated reputations. With the access to relatively large pools of expertise and a competitive bounty-earning environment, companies are able to find bugs efficiently and fix it effectively. At the same time, it also mitigates the risks of participants hiding bugs for malicious use. Therefore, BBPs creates a win-win situation for companies and ethical hackers in improving information security.

Keywords: Bug-bounty programs, BBPs, Ethical hackers, Crowdsourcing, Information security
